Machine learning is a field of study which finds patterns in known sample/training data to be able to predict outcomes for unknown inputs. It can be used in a variety of 
applications from medicine, to analytics and security and betting.

Ultimately, the confounding factor in all Machine Learning applications is the quality of the data. If the data is not labelled correctly, or largely incomplete, the 
accuracy of the predictions will be questionable. When these models make it into real world machines that have real consequences, accuracy can play a big part. The Uber 
self-driving car fatality was due to the Machine Learning models inaccurate assessment of the entities in view of the camera.



Machine Learning would be a subset of AI because it uses the Artificial Intelligence to "learn". Artificial Intelligence is a much broader term that may encompass many 
other fields of study.


One example of a modern ML application is protien folding. Simulating protien folding in the traditional way is not feasible, and machine learning allows us to do much 
more at a fraction of the computing power. Another application is the Chinese public surveillance system which uses Machine Learning to accurately determine a persons 
characteristics, going so far as to be able to single out Uyghurs so that they can be spirited away to the concentration camps. This would also be infeasible using traditional 
methods which would involve hiring thousands of people to scrawl through the videos and manually labelling individuals, as well as guessing their "features" from only a 
low-quality video.

In Machine Learning, an Observation is a row of data with multiple "features" each containing data. The data can be either Quantitative data, which is numerical/objective, 
or Qualitative data that is non-numeric or subjective.

I have been personally interested in Machine Learning since I found the Youtube channel "Two Minute Papers" where Dr.Karoly Zsolnai-Feher showcases the latest published 
papers in AI, ML and other related fields in short, bite sized videos. If I continue to study this field in my higher studies, I would be most interested in finding more 
general solutions to the Alignment problem.